---
layout: exam_info
num: le01
ready: true
desc: "Lab Exam-01"
exam_date: 2017-11-14 8:00:00.00-8
---


# THE LOCATION:

* Phelps 3525 during the lab section you are registered for.
* Leave yourself extra time to get there!
* No makeups!

# Lab exam

In this exam you will be asked to write code on the lab computers.

# Lab exam rules
* You MUST appear in the section that you are registered for. This may be different from the section that you normally attend.
* You must bring an ID card
* You MUST NOT log in remotely into the CSIL machines or submit.cs between 8am to 2pm, other than the time you are taking the exam.
* You  MUST NOT discuss the contents of the exam with anyone between 8am and 2pm
* You may take the exam on your own laptop if you have idle3, pytest and internet
* You may bring one sheet of notes paper.
* You MUST stay in your section for the entire 50 minute duration even if you
  finish the exam early.

## What is covered

The main topics you will be tested on are lists, strings, while loops and for loops
You will be given two problems that are very similar to the problems you have seen on labs 05 and lab06. However, no test code will be provided.

You must write your own test code and solution, and when you are satisfied submit your solution on submit.cs. You can only see a partial score after submission.

You must be comfortable with topics covered in the following components:
* Labs 1 to 6
* Homeworks 1 to 11 (excluding hw 6, 7 and 10 (Chapter 4))
All topics in chapters 2,3, 5 with high emphasis on chapter 5 (loops)
* In class assignments ic03 and ic04

# Two important tips
* Read the question carefully!
* Test your code thoroughly!

---

<div style="display:none;">  http://ucsb-cs8-f17.github.io/exam/e02 </div>
