---
num: "h10"
desc: "Perkovic 6.3-6.4 (Encodings, random)"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-11-07 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-11-14 08:00:00.00-8:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please read {{page.desc}}.  Then complete these problems and turn in your completed homework during your registered lab section..


<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_variable_points.html points="10" %}

<li markdown="1"> Section 6.3 discusses character encodings, a topic that usually arises in the context of dealing with strings, and files.   Two encodings are discussed: ASCII and Unicode.  The text also discusses various ways of representing Unicode characters including `utf-8`, `utf-16`, and `utf-32`.

<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom: 3em;">(10 pts) The original 7-bit
ASCII character set has 128 different characters, numbered 0 through
127, but not all of them are "printable" characters.  According to our text, 
how many of the ASCII characters with
codes 0 through 127 are considered "printable"?
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom: 3em;">(10 pts) Fill in the blanks in the following sequence of Python code so that the code prints out all of the lowercase characters 'a' through 'z':

```
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 
```

Your answer should only involve filling in the blanks; not modifying the rest of the code in anyway.  As a reminder, `end=' '` on a function call to `print` makes the print NOT go to a new line; instead, it just prints a space after eachcall to `print` (See Section 4.2, p. 99 in the textbook.)


<div style="font-size:120%;">

```

for i in range ( ________ , ________ ) :
   print(chr(i),end=' ')
   
```

</div>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

</ol>
</li>



<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom: 3em;">Indicate what the output of the code will be:

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

```
for c in "UCSB":
   print(ord(c),sep=",")
```

</td>
<td style="width:30em; height:4em;"> (10 pts)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">

```
print ('\u0048\u0049\u0021')
```

</td>
<td style="width:30em; height:4em;"> (10 pts)
</td>
</tr>


</table>
</li>



<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em;"> (10 pts) Write a Python expression that returns an random integer
between 5 and 10.
</li>

<li markdown="1"> Suppose the python variable `ucList` is defined as follows:

```
ucList=[ "UCB", "UCD", "UCI", "UCLA", "UCM", "UCR", "UCSB", "UCSC", "UCSD" ]
```
<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:6em;"> (10 pts)
Write a Python expression that returns the name of a random UC from this list (as a string).   For full credit, use the most straightforward way (that way doesn't involve calculating the length of the list.)
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:6em;">
(10 pts) Write a Python expression that returns a pair of random UCs from this list (i.e. a list of length 2 that has two randomly selected UCs from the list.  Do it in the most straightforward way possible.   (If you read the whole section carefully, you'll discover this can be done in one line of code.)
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:6em;">
(10 pts) Section 6.3 explains the idea of <em>lexicograpic order</em>.  As it turns out, the list `ucList` is already in lexicographic order, though if it were not, we could put it in lexicographic order by writing `ucList.sort()`.

What is lexicographic order?  

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:6em;">
(20 pts) Suppose that someone proposed that instead of putting the UCs in alphabetical order, to randomize the order (so that "UCB" wouldn't always be first, and "UCSD" wouldn't always be last.)

Write some Python code that would print the UC abbreviations, one per line,
in a random order.  Use the most straightforward way of doing it.
</li>


</ol>

