---
num: "ic05"
desc: "Review for final"
ready: true
assigned: 2017-12-04 08:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-12-04 08:00:00.00-8:00
---

<div style="display:none">https://ucsb-cs8-m17.github.io/hwk/h16/
</div>


These problems are review for the final exam, and refer to material from Chapters 2-6, and section 7.1. Turn in your completed homework during your registered lab section.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em"> (20 pts) Write an python function definition `count_ae` that takes one parameter `s` and returns 0 if `s` is not a string, otherwise returns the number of occurences of `a` and `e` in that string (only lowercase).  For example:

* `count_ae(-42)` should return `0`
* `count_ae("Santa Ynez")` should return `3`
* `count_ae("Santa Ana")`  should return `3` (the uppercase `A` does not count)


</li>
<li markdown="1"> (10 pts) Write two test cases in the `pytest` style for `count_ae`

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>


<li markdown="1"> For each of the problems below, write python functions with the name indicated that takes one parameter called `aList`, or test cases for those functions (in the style of `pytest`).  In each case, you may assume `aList` is of type `list` and that all values in `aList` are of type `int`, and that `aList` contains at least two elements.  For these problems, you don't need to check those things.

Your code may not modify the list in any way.  If you want to make a sorted copy of the list as a local variable, you may use this code:

<div style="width:20em;" markdown="1">

```
   sortedCopy = list(aList)
   sortedCopy.sort()
```

</div>

<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:9em;"> (10 pts) `minValue`, which
returns the minimum value in the list *without* using the built-in function
`min`.
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:9em;">
(10 pts) Two test cases
(in the `pytest` style) for `minValue`
</li>



<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:9em;"> (10 pts) `avgValue` which returns the average value of the elements in the list.   You may use any built in functions available in Python, or compute the sum using the accumulator pattern (your choice).
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:9em;"> (10 pts)
Two test cases (in the `pytest` style) for `avgValue`
</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:9em;"> (10 pts) `secondSmallest` which computes the second smallest element in the list (not the second smallest value).   For example, `secondSmallest([3,7,3])` should return `3`.

</li>



<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:4em;">
(10 pts) Two test cases (in the `pytest` style) for `secondSmallest`
</li>

</ol>
</li>

</ol>
